Classes are templates of code that we create in Java. There is 2 parts to classes. One are the variables that make up the properties of the class. This is the data that we use to store information about the class/object, or data that will be processed. We can process and access data using methods that we define in the class. So what does the class do? Well we can use it in 2 ways really. The first way is using it to create an object. The second way is using the class to create another class or classes that share those same base properties, but possibly add even more on or change the ways in which those properties are processed or manipulated.

Objects are what we create from classes. If the class is a template, the object is what is physically created from that template, instances that hold the data and utilize the methods. Once created, we can then make use of all the properties and methods defined in the template. Since we have a class defined, we can then create multiple objects from the same class without worry about any of that data or properties getting mixed up.

In my example code, I create a creature class for a game. This is just a baseline class that is meant to be further refined into different creatures. I setup some basic properties that can be inherited by its child classes. With those, I could provide more in-depth properties like health, stats, spells, etc. Now the class by itself can’t really do anything. In order to do something, I create an object. This is when I create an object called rat, and give it a race, level, and determine if it is playable or not. From here, I can utilize methods to interact with it and manipulate it more.
